So the problem that we're hitting
are not necessarily a problem.
But what we're hitting is when we delete an item
and it actually doesn't disappear
until you refresh the page.
And that's because that item's deleted
from the database but it still exists in memory.
Still exists in the actual cash of our all products query.
So what we need to do is,
we could just refresh that query,
but sometimes, and this is the case a lot of times,
is you don't want to go to the network
and refresh all of them.
You just wanna say, well, I just deleted that one,
so just take it out, right.
So Apollo has a really nice API called Evict.
And it basically just take it out of the cache,
React will notice that the cache change
and it will re-render
and take that item on out.
So, the way that works is
you create an update function that you pass along
with your use mutation.
So here we have our use mutation
and we pass it variables.
You can also pass it in another argon
which is our update function.
And the update function will run
when the mutation comes back.
So I'm just going to say update
and we have a function called update.
And then we'll go up here.
So this is not inside a component or anything.
And just make a function called update.
That update function gives us access to the cache.
That's the Apollo cache.
As well as the payload.
The payload is what gets returned
from the update of the mutation.
So remember here, when we ran our delete product,
and we asked that when I delete it,
can you give me the ID and the name.
In our case what's gonna happen is that
we're going to be supplied with the ID and the name
of the item that was deleted.
So that we can take that payload
and remove it from the cash.
Let's just go ahead and log out here.
That says console.log.
Let's just say payload.
We don't need to log the cash, we know what that is.
So, and then we'll also console.log
running the update function after delete.
Let's just do it once to show you what's happening here.
So go to our console, clear it out.
Let's take this hoodie here, delete it.
Go ahead, boom.
And you see it was deleted, a split second later
once it came back
for the network, running the update,
open up the object, inside of there's data.
And then we see both the name and the ID.
As long as the type name is inferred--
Or not inferred.
It's send over by default.
But it gives us whatever items we actually wanted to delete.
So the way that we can remove that item from the cash
is we run cache.evict
and then you need to pass it referenced
to the actual item.
And we don't have reference to the item.
We just have this object that came back.
And the way that you can find--
It's kind of weird
because you gotta find the item in the cache
and then you gotta evict it.
So the way that you can find the item in the cache
is with cache.identify
and you pass it just on payload.
So payload.data.deleteproduct.
So payload is this, data, delete product.
So you give it this.
And based on the information that is in here,
which is type name and ID.
I don't know if it uses the name or not to find it.
But the type name and ID are all that's needed
for it to identify where that item is
in our Apollo cache.
And based on that it will identify it.
It will find it.
And then we pass that item to cache.evict
and that will boop, take it out entirely.
So, we can refresh, go to our console here,
delete this windbreaker here.
Delete.
Okay.
Cache.indentify.
(laughing)
IDENTIFY, identify.
Okay so one more.
Vapormax delete, okay.
Boom!
You see how it was removed.
And the Yeti came on up.
That is exactly what we want.
If you took this course previously,
that was like, I don't know,
30 lines of code previously.
And now it's a couple of minute video
with cache.evict.
So that is new in Apollo Three.
And a very nice API.